A visit by Mr. André Hoffman, river ecologist at the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency’s aquatic conservation unit, confirmed this and crayfish of all sizes were found with the largest at 129 grams. “Urgent measures will now be put into place to limit the crayfish to the dam and a process will begin to eradicate them. A study will also now be done to find out whether the crayfish have spread to the nearby Olifants River and whether there are further populations of the crayfish on other farms in the area,” said Mr. Hoffman. He appeals to the public for help so that this plague can be eradicated. In South Africa there are no indigenous freshwater crayfish, only shrimps and crabs. The species of crayfish found, Cherax quadricarinatus, is a declared invasive species native to Australia. It is classified as a category 1b species that needs to be intensively controlled. It is illegal to own this species and no one is allowed to collect and move it around. The occurrence of this invader was first found in the Komatie River in 2002 and during a study of the species it was found that it was brought to Swaziland by Adrian Peers from Zambia. From there they escaped and spread to the Komati River in South Africa. Populations have now also been found in the Crocodile River and Klipkoppie Dam. “These crayfish breed very quickly, have few natural predators, spread easily and can spread over land when it rains. In Karibadam, this is already a huge problem in their fishing industry there. They also compete with our native crabs and shrimp and they have a big impact on fish species and other aquatic organisms.” “No crabs were found in the dam where the crayfish were found locally and it is also very difficult to find fish there. It therefore already indicates the impact of the invader on the aquatic species that should occur naturally,” says Mr. Hoffman. The public is seriously admonished not to keep or collect or distribute freshwater crayfish. There is also a serious appeal that anyone who knows where these crayfish occur or sees them should immediately report them to Mr. Hoffman at 082 412 5756. “Help us to protect our river ecosystems so that we can enjoy our environment for a long time to come.”    Do you have a news lead? Contact our editorial office on 013 243 1434 or our standby number for emergencies on 072 248 3855 to share your story with us. Follow us on the Middelburg Observer Facebook group or page or send a WhatsApp to 072 248 3855 with the words “add me” for the latest news. Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).