The young mother, aged 23, went to the Community Service Centre (CSC) complaining about labour pains after she allegedly went to the clinic across the road, only to find it closed. Constable Solomon Kleinbooi Mnisi was on duty and managed to contact Sergeant Nkang Winner Mogoru, who was on patrol duties, and she quickly rushed back to the station. According to Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe, the duo collaborated to assist the woman in giving birth in the boardroom of the police station. Sergeant Mogoru, who attended nursing college, used her own emergency medical kit and resources to deliver the baby. The two police officers summoned an ambulance, which transported the newborn baby girl and her mother to the hospital. “Sergeant Mogoru indicated that she understands the risks involved in these incidents, but that they are often faced with situations where they have to perform duties beyond the normal SAPS mandate to save lives,” said Colonel Ngoepe.   Do you have a news lead? Contact our editorial office on 013 243 1434 or our standby number for emergencies on 072 248 3855 to share your story with us. Follow us on the Middelburg Observer Facebook group or page or send a WhatsApp to 072 248 3855 with the words “add me” for the latest news. Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).