According to DA Ward Councillor, Helda de Klerk, 15 residences in Kanonkop have been allocated to be a part of the research consortium, to assess levels of infection by testing the presence of Covid-19 antibodies through the submission of reports and blood samples. Participants who volunteer in the survey will be kept up to date on the results, meaning that they will know whether they have contracted the virus. The voluntary survey will be conducted in 400 communities across the country and is anticipated to reach 19 000 people. Dr Mohammed S. Tayob from the Mzansi Ethical Research Centre, confirmed that the fieldworkers are part of the survey. He reminded potential participants to be mindful of the antibody warning concept, which means that people who develop Covid-19 infection may lose their antibodies within four to six weeks after developing antibodies. “This means that people who may have contracted Covid-19 before could possibly test negative for antibodies.” He also added that patients could possibly have another form of immunity from the virus called T-cell immunity, which won’t be picked up by these antibody tests. “This does not mean that residents should not participate in the survey because the research is important in assessing the immunity of a community.”     Do you have a news lead? Contact our editorial office on 013 243 1434 or our standby number for emergencies on 072 248 3855 to share your story with us. Follow us on the Middelburg Observer Facebook group or page or send a WhatsApp to 072 248 3855 with the words “add me” for the latest news. Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).