The shortage is related to a current criminal investigation into alleged tender fraud, after the EFF opened a criminal case in Nelspruit. Several sources at hospitals across the province confirmed that they are running on fumes with medicine and other basic supplies such as saline drips, blood sets and personal protective equipment running out. The chaos was allegedly caused when a contract to run the Pharmaceutical Depot in Middelburg with previous service provider Safarmex ended and was awarded to Bongani Rainmaker Logistics. The whole province’s clinics and hospitals receive stock from the depot. Www.mobserver.co.za reported in March that workers at the depot went on strike, demanding to be employed by the Department of Health rather than working on a contractual basis. Information has it that the previous contractor removed all its property from the depot building, including computers and furniture. When the new contractor took over operations beginning of June, they had no resources and resorted to writing invoices by hand. It is also claimed by insiders that there is a shortage of professional staff such as pharmacists at the depot. Also read: Nehawu has brougt pharmaceutical depot to a standstill The move caused the pharmaceutical depot to grind to a halt. Hospitals and clinics were informed that where they usually ordered hundreds of pharmaceutical, surgical or emergency units at a time, they were now only allowed 30 per week. One source said that clinics and hospitals have not received a proper delivery since mid-May whilst another claims that they have been without resources such as blood sets or intravenous lines, drip points and even sterile gloves since March. “The situation is only going to get worse. Soon it will be challenging for basic procedures like for women to give birth as even saline drips are becoming scarce and patients need fluid when they give birth,” a source said. “This issue is going to cripple the provincial health system,” another source warned. EFF provincial chairperson Collen Sedibe confirmed to www.mobserver.co.za that they have lodged a criminal complaint. He alleges that the contract to Bongani Rainmaker was awarded fraudulently and said that they will also be taking the matter to the public protector next week. Provincial police spokesperson, brig. Leonard Hlathi, said in an earlier statement that although it is false that government officials have been arrested, they are busy with an investigation. • A media enquiry was lodged with the Provincial Department of Health. Spokesperson Dumisani Malamule promised to look into the matter and provide feedback as soon as possible. • The previous contractor, Safamex, was contacted for comment. They were asked whether it is true that they removed their property including computers and furniture from the depot. They are yet to respond. • Bongani Rainmaker said they would look at a media enquiry, but could not promise that they would respond as they feel it is the Department of Health that should respond saying they are only a service provider. They were asked among other things whether it is true that they are writing invoices by hand because there is no capturing system in place.