Gareth Sutherland is currently being treated at the Life Kosmos Hospital in eMalahleni. He was one of three people who were injured during a runaway fire in the Elandspruit area that originated near the N4 and burnt all the way to the R555 (Old Witbank/Middelburg Road).  According to Mr Sutherland’s mother, he was injured when the fire jumped a fire break and he rushed to extinguish it. Someone else, who was operating a blower, also rushed to the flames and blew the flames onto Mr Sutherland without realising it. Also read: Drie beseer in veldbrand “We don’t blame anyone, it was a freak accident, but maybe the photos of my son can serve as a warning to others,” Lydia Sutherland said. She said that her son is taken to theatre every few days to have his wounds cleaned and that he is still in a lot of pain. According to reports another man was admitted to ICU with burn wounds sustained during the same fire. A third person was injured but did not need to be admitted to hospital.    Do you have a news lead? Contact our editorial office on 013 243 1434 or our standby number for emergencies on 072 248 3855 to share your story with us. Follow us on the Middelburg Observer Facebook group or page or send a WhatsApp to 072 248 3855 with the words “add me” for the latest news. Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).