Mr Wayne Hill (from AfriForum Neighbourhood Watch) was elected as the coordinator at the first meeting and led the meeting. Mayor Diphala Motsepe, the Vispol Commander, Colonel Maria Jiyana, as well as other representatives of the South African Police Service, the Traffic Department, law enforcement from the Steve Tshwete Municipality, security companies and several radio groups all attended the meeting. With crime clearly out of control in our town, the group highlighted the biggest problems that need immediate attention. There were also question and answer sessions answered by Colonel Jiyana, the Traffic Department, law enforcement and security firms. • One of the concerns was the reaction time of the police at crime scenes. Victims of crimes sometimes waited for more than an hour before the police arrived. Colonel Jiyana stated that the ideal is four SAPS members per 100 citizens, which means that there should be 750 police members available in Middelburg. The reality is that there are only 200 members in Middelburg. She made it clear that it is very important now, more than ever, for all security firms and other neighbourhood groups to work together to help the police. Other concerns and matters discussed at the meeting included: • Illegal immigrants, especially in Kanonkop and Dennesig. • Security companies. Reaction units rush out to emergencies and get speeding fines. The Traffic Department said that they could look into specific cases, “but collaboration should be based on trust”. There must be proof of an emergency. • The Uitkyk area (Van Dyksdrift road) was identified as a hot-spot area for prostitution and culprits who throw spikes on the N4. Visible policing and operations, as well as unplanned operations, have been suggested for the area. (That same night Titon Security did an operation in the area). • The selling of drugs to children in our town. The amount of drugs a person must have on them before they can be arrested and sent to court was discussed. There were cases where the police could not arrest someone because they did not have enough drugs on them, “We feel that one gram must be enough to arrest dealers and get them out of our town.” • Colonel Jiyana asked that the Community Policing Forum must attend meetings to form part of the crime-fighting group. • One of the members proposed that a representative of the Department of Justice be invited to the meetings to give input on court proceedings in the fight against crime. • Representatives of businesses, especially foreigners renting, should also be invited. • The importance of all Sector Managers in Middelburg being present at the meetings. • “Are the cameras working against crime in the Central Business District?” was another concern. • The Traffic Department must look into trucks that stop illegally in Cowen Ntuli Street as it lures prostitutes and drug selling to the area. • Taverns that are open long after the curfew time are proving to be a big problem. • Tow truck drivers not adhering to the law on the roads. The Traffic Department said they will look into the problem. • Homeless people are a big concern and a proposal was made to make a building available where food and overnight facilities can be available. The municipality will look into it. • Mayor Motsepe also mentioned that they are planning a municipal court to loosen the strain on the magistrates court. The next meeting will be on July 9 for strategic feedback from the SAPS and law enforcement. Anyone who wants to attend the meeting can call Mr Hill on 083 303 8784.     Do you have a news lead? Contact our editorial office on 013 243 1434, send an email to our newsroom or contact our standby number 072 248 3855 to share your story with us. Follow us on the Middelburg Observer Facebook page or join our WhatsApp group for the latest news. Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).