The parents said their children have been placed at the Middelburg Mine School, which is far from their homes. A woman who spoke to the www.mobserver.co.za and asked to remain anonymous for fear of victimization, said her child has not been attending school since the academic year started, due to the department’s placement. She added that her child was placed on a waiting list for one of the local schools, but was eventually told that there wasn’t any space. Protests over the lack of space in local schools are not new. In January 2019, several grade one learners did not receive a place in any Middelburg school. Middelburg Primary School, Laerskool Middelburg, Laerskool C.R. Swart, Laerskool Kanonkop and Laerskool Dennesig saw it fit to establish classrooms at the Middelburg Care Village to accommodate the learners. The five schools funded the refurbishment of the classrooms at the Care Village. Numerous attempts were made to contact Mpumalanga Education spokesperson Jasper Zwane, however, he could not be reached before print.   Do you have a news lead? Contact our editorial office on 013 243 1434 or our standby number for emergencies on 072 248 3855 to share your story with us. Follow us on the Middelburg Observer Facebook group or page or send a WhatsApp to 072 248 3855 with the words “add me” for the latest news.  Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).