The effluent, which includes human waste, has been overflowing from the drain into a nearby river. DA proportional councillor, Morgan Bruiners, is concerned that children playing near the clogged drain will contract diseases, “It’s difficult to live with the stench. The municipality always preaches about service delivery being a priority, but that’s just a slogan, the services are really lacking, from potholes to street lights,” said the frustrated councillor. Mr Bruiners said he has escalated the residents’ complaints to the municipality, however, “nothing has been done yet.” “The municipality visited the area on Friday and did not sort out the issue. We are pleading with the municipality to attend to this matter with urgency. Residents are angry and highlighted that they are taxpayers and deserve better services. With the new mayor elected, we hope and trust that service delivery will be first on his agenda for Middelburg,” he added. • Numerous attempts were made to contact the municipality, but they could not be reached before print. Do you have a news lead? Contact our editorial office on 013 243 1434 or our standby number for emergencies on 072 248 3855 to share your story with us. Follow us on the Middelburg Observer Facebook group or page or send a WhatsApp to 072 248 3855 with the words “add me” for the latest news. Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za).