Middelburg’s first citizen, Hon. Mayor Bagudi Tolo, has sadly passed away. Mayor Tolo was admitted to Life Midmed Hospital after contracting Covid-19 in late December. He spent almost a month in hospital and showed sporadic signs of improvement. Mayor Tolo was on a ventilator and unconscious when he passed around 02:00 this morning. The municipality confirmed his passing, wishing the Tolo family condolences and prayers. After qualifying as teacher, Mayor Tolo became a career politician leading in various position on National, provincial and local levels. He was called back to public service in April 2018, from pension, to take up position as Mayor following Mr Mike Masina’s formal resignation from office. Mayor Tolo was a true son of our soil, having settled in his hometown Mhluzi, following his illustrious career as politician. He personally led a coordinated assault on Covid-19, before contracting the virus himself. In council, Mayor Tolo was respected as a voice of reason, often pacifying the opposition into his corner. Political parties have not responded to the news of his passing yet. The Tolo family is yet to issue a statement to www.mobserver.co.za. Funeral arrangements will be communicated to the community once finalized. More information will be published in this week’s Middelburg Observer.  * Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za). Do you have a news lead? Contact our editorial office on 013 243 1434 or our standby number for emergencies on 072 248 3855 to share your story with us. Follow us on the Middelburg Observer Facebook group or page or send a whatsapp to 072 248 3855 with the words “add me” for the latest news.