The private reserve is home to some of the oldest cycads, with trees dating from 800 to 1800 old, including the threatened Cycad Middelburgensis.
The reserve is also home to iron age structures dated between AD 1600 to 1830. The beautiful reserve is also well known for its rock paintings depicting the early Ndebele and Sotho settlement in the area. Singo Consulting brought the prospecting application on two 5m² pieces of land on the 5000 hectare big reserve, where Glencore already did studies which found no coal to mine.  The application was submitted on behalf of Legare Mining Services in eMalahleni. Reserve owner, Mr Sid Sidersky, says that he’s received tremendous support against the planned prospecting with Glencore and the Endangered Wildlife Fund, registering as affected parties alongside others like Sean Badenhorst of Tread magazine. A petition, started by Presidentsrus resident, Mr Deon Johnson, is also circulating online, with signatories like the National Cycad Society. According to Mr Sidersky the application for a mining permit on “Broodroom 992JS” is flawed as the name, Broodboom, was misspelt. More imporatantly, the farm Broodboom 992JS does not exist as the property was never registered after a portion of the farm was sold to Bankfontein.
The farms have since been consolidated again, after Mr Sidersky bought Bankfontein. Mr Sidersky says the battle will go one of two ways, “either we get a knockout in the first round, or we live to fight the full 13 rounds, nevertheless, the result will be the same with no mining now or in the future, because there is no coal!”. Readers can go to www.bezhoek.co.za to see what will be destroyed.      * Notice: Coronavirus reporting at Caxton Local Media aims to combat fake news Dear reader, As your local news provider, we have the duty of keeping you factually informed on Covid-19 developments. As you may have noticed, mis- and disinformation (also known as “fake news”) is circulating online. Caxton Local Media is determined to filter through the masses of information doing the rounds and to separate truth from untruth in order to keep you adequately informed. Local newsrooms follow a strict pre-publication fact-checking protocol. A national task team has been established to assist in bringing you credible news reports on Covid-19. Readers with any comments or queries may contact National Group Editor Irma Green (irma@caxton.co.za) or Legal Adviser Helene Eloff (helene@caxton.co.za). Do you have a news lead? Contact our editorial office on 013 243 1434 or our standby number for emergencies on 072 248 3855 to share your story with us. Follow us on the Middelburg Observer Facebook group or page or send a WhatsApp to 072 248 3855 with the words “add me” for the latest news.    